Our theme is a very interesting one
about the spiritual man,
how he examines all things.
It’s the spirit of God that makes a Christian
into a person who stands out
as different from those
who are part of this world.
So with that in mind,
read with me 1 Corinthians 2:12.
Here, the scripture states:
“Now we received,
not the spirit of the world,
“but the spirit that is from God,
“so that we might know the things
that have been kindly given us by God.”
The spirit that we receive
from Jehovah God is his active force.
And we really must have it
if we’re going to understand spiritual things
—if we’re going to appreciate the things
that Jehovah God has kindly given us,
as the text states.
Has Jehovah’s spirit opened the door
to kindly give you
and give me wonderful things?
The Kingdom, the ransom,
the hope of everlasting life,
a new world, the resurrection
—these are things that the spirit
has revealed to Jehovah’s people.
Something else that we’ve received
is the worldwide brotherhood
or, really, that we’re a part of.
And when you examine
the worldwide brotherhood,
it becomes very evident
that it could never exist
apart from Jehovah God’s spirit.
In no way could man
bring about such a brotherhood.
Now let’s read verse 13—1 Corinthians 2:13;
it says: “These things
[that is, the things he has given us]
“we also speak,
not with words taught by human wisdom,
“but with those taught by the spirit,
“as we explain spiritual matters
with spiritual words.”
We focus on spiritual things.
The sum total of human experience and wisdom
—its writings, philosophies, and teachings—
are as Jesus said,
“of no use at all”
to gain everlasting life;
that’s John 6:63.
Spiritual matters and spiritual words
are found right here
in God’s Word, the Bible.
And our vocabulary is different
from the world’s way of speaking,
which is becoming
more and more vulgar and disgusting.
Our speech centers on spiritual matters
—Jehovah’s will—
and so we explain the spiritual matters
that we understand from the Scriptures
with spiritual words.
And in the end,
we give glory to Jehovah by doing so.
And now let’s read verse 14.
There it says: “But a physical man
“does not accept
the things of the spirit of God,
“for they are foolishness to him;
“and he cannot get to know them,
because they are examined spiritually.”
When it speaks of a physical man,
it’s not speaking
about a person with a fleshly body
because, after all,
all Christians living today on this earth
have fleshly bodies,
but it refers to a person
who has no spiritual side to his life.
And there are many
who fall into this category.
Some of them are humanists,
who seem to be people
who really want to do what is good.
They want to help people.
Their main pursuit is the welfare of people.
But does that make them spiritual?
No.
The spiritual man knows
that to ‘love his neighbor as himself’
is the second commandment.
That’s the only thing they follow.
But the main thing, the first commandment,
the most important one,
is to ‘love Jehovah God with your
whole heart, mind, soul, and strength.’
And this is something
that the humanist does not follow.
What about atheists,
agnostics, and evolutionists?
As we studied recently,
many people embrace evolution,
not because they have really studied things
and they’re convinced
by certain things they consider to be facts,
no, but they’ve been told by someone
that it’s true.
And so they accept what they’ve been told.
And on the other hand, there are
dyed-in-the-wool atheists and evolutionists
who embrace theories
that if those theories they embrace
were applied
to any other discipline or aspect of life,
they would not be considered
anything but fantasy and wild imagination.
And that’s the truth.
Some physical men ridicule believers in God
and say: “Well, your belief in God
is just a crutch.
I don’t need a crutch.”
Well, you do need a crutch.
That’s the truth of the matter.
You’re mortal.
All of us are mortal.
And we need help in the sense
that we need divine intervention,
help from Jehovah God.
And he provides it
through the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
So we understand why the physical man
acts the way he does.
He shuts his eyes
to the overwhelming facts of creation
—the obvious intelligent design of DNA;
the fine-tuning of the forces,
the four forces evident in the universe;
earth’s marvelous cycles that maintain it;
the precise placement
of the earth in the solar system;
the wonderful symbiotic relationships
in the plant and animal world;
and so much more that make it very obvious.
The wonderful, the marvelous, intelligence
that Jehovah God exhibits in creation.
But as 1 Corinthians 2:14 says
(and we’ve read it):
“A physical man
does not accept
the things of the spirit of God.”
And what’s interesting
is he looks at just the physical things,
and yet it’s the spirit of God
that created the wonderful physical things,
but he’s blind
because he can’t see beyond them.
It’s like a man
who admires a beautiful painting,
a marvelous work of art,
and he purchases it for his home.
And he praises the artist.
And then he wants to see the scene,
or the site, where the artist did his work.
So he goes to the mountains
where the lakes are,
the mountains are, the trees, the wildlife.
And he observes these things,
and he is awestruck with their beauty.
And he praises the artist.
He doesn’t say anything
about the one who did the original.
He’s blind.
And that’s how it is with a physical man.
First Corinthians 2:15, that verse says:
“However,
the spiritual man examines all things,
but he himself is not examined by any man.”
The spiritual man is not one who all day long
wears a sanctimonious, or religious,
expression on his face.
He’s not like a self-righteous Pharisee.
The spiritual man is capable of admitting
when he makes a mistake.
His first thought is not to save face,
but his first thought
is really to be honest and open.
He knows his Creator
can see everything and knows everything.
We are honest with ourselves and with others,
and we deal with situations with modesty.
And what is more, the spiritual man
is able to see the wrong position
of the physical man,
the course of the physical man.
We understand the mental attitude
of the physical man.
We know what makes him tick.
However, the physical man
does not understand the spiritual man.
And just for a brief explanation,
1 John 2:15-17
(which I won’t read at this time)
gives a very brief description
of the mental attitude
and outlook of the physical man.
A fact that cannot be ignored,
also, is that Christendom’s churches
as well as all religions
that are part of Babylon the Great
—with their unscriptural teachings,
unclean practices, and meddling in politics—
have played a major role
in driving people away
from belief in the true God.
They have a great responsibility
before Jehovah God
because of the foolish,
ridiculous things they teach
and their activities that dishonor Jehovah.
They have driven people
to atheism and agnosticism.
So how good it is
to know the true God, Jehovah
—to have been drawn to him!
And if you know the truth,
you have been drawn to Jehovah God
by his holy spirit,
his invisible power that is so evident
in all of creation
and particularly in his Word, the Bible.
Spiritual men and women
can see the unseen.
We know who created
the heavens and the earth
and all that is in them
—our wonderful God, Jehovah.